Could have, Should have, Would have.

Generally, these are used in the 3rd form of verb.

Could have.
    Could have + v3 - means that something was possible in the past, or you had the ability to do something in the past, but that you didn't do it.
    For Example:
        1. I coculd have stayed up late, but I decided to go to bed early.
        2. They could have won the race, but they didn't try hard enough.
        3. The boy could have run away from the bullies, but he decided to confront them.
    Could have + v3 - means that something wasn't possible in the past, even if you had wanted to do it.
    For Example:
        1. I couldn't have arrived any earlier. There was a terrible traffic jam There was a terrible traffic jam (= it was impossible for me to have arrived any earlier). (= it was impossible for me to have arrived any earlier).
        2. He couldn't have passed the exam, even if he had studied harder. It's a really, really difficult exam.
    Could have + v3 - when we want to make a guess about someting that happened in the past. In this case, we don't know if what we're saying is true or not true. We're just talking about our opinion of what maybe happened.
    For Example:
        1. Are you out of your mind?! You could have crahed into that wall!
        2. Are you crazy? We could have gotten into an accident.

Should have.
    Should have + v3 - Should have means that something did not happen, but we wish it had happened. We use should have to talk about past mistakes.
    For Examples:
        1. I should have studied harder! (=I didn't study very hard and so I failed the exam. I'm sorry aobut this now.)
        2. I shouldn't have eaten so much cake! (=I did eat a lot of cake and now I don't feel good.)
        3. You should have asked my permission before you used my computer. I'm really angry with you.

Would have.
    Would have + v3 - Use would have to imagine a result (if something had been different in the past):
    For Example:
        1. If I had had enough money, I would have bought a car (but I didn't have anought money, so I didn't buy a car).
        2. If we had arrived earlier, we would have caught our flight.
        3. If I had brought my umbrella, I wouldn't have got wet in the rain.
    Would have + v3 - we can also use would have + v3 to talk about something you wanted to do but didn't.
    For Example:
        1. I would have helped you. I didn't know you needed help. (=if I had known that you needed help, I would have helped you.)
        2. I would have called you, but I didn't know your number. (=I wanted to call you but I didn't know your number, I didn't call you.)


