1. Ascent - Assent.
    Ascent (Noun) - a climb or walk to the summit of a mountain or hill.
        She made her first successful ascent of Everst last year.
    Assent (Noun) - the expression of approval or agreement.
        Once the directors have given their assent to the proposal we can begin.

2. Bridal - Bridle.
    Bridal (Adjective) - of a women about to be married, or of a marriage ceremony.
        Her white bridal gown.
    Bridle (Noun) - a set of leather straps that are put around a horse's head to allow its rider to control it.
        Bridle are good.

3. Expedient - Expeditious.
    Expedient (Adjective) - helpful or useful in a particular situation, but sometimes not morally acceptable.
        The management has taken a series of expedient measures to improve the company's financial situation.
    Expeditious (Adjective) - Done with speed and efficiency.
        The bank was expeditious in replying to my letter.

4. Alter - Altar.
    Alter (Verb) - to change something.
        We've had to alter some of our plans.
    Altar (Noun) - An altar is a holy table in a church or temple.
        Altar is good.

5. Affect - Effect.
    Affect (Verb) - to have an influence on someone or something.
        Both buildings were badly affected by the fire.
    Effect (Noun) - the result of a particular influence.
        I think I'm suffering from the effects of too little sleep.
    Effect (Verb) - cause (something) to happen; bring about.
        The prime minister effected many policy changes.

6. Cite - Site.
    Cite (Verb) - to mention something as proof.
        She cited three reasons why people get into debt.
    Site (Noun) - an area of ground on which a town, building, or monument is constructed.
        The company hasn't yet chosen the site for the new hospital.

7. Conscious - Conscientious.
    Conscious (Adjective) - aware of and responding to one's surround.
        Although I was in pain, I was conscious.
    Conscientious (Adjective) - wishing to do one's work or duty well and throughly.
        A conscientious man, he took his duties very seriously.

8. Elicit - Illicit.
    Elicit (Verb) - evoke or draw out (a reaction, answer, or fact) from someone.
        Have you managed to elicit a response from them yet?
    Illicit (Adjective) - illegal or disapproved of by society.
        Illicit drugs such as cocain and cannabis.

9. Emigrant - Immigrant.
    Emigrant (Noun) - a person who leaves their own country in order to settle permanently in another.
        He is an emigrant person.
    Immigrant (Noun) - a person who comes to live permanently in a foreign country.
        He is an immitgrant person.

10. Eminent - Imminent.
    Eminent (Adjective) - famous, respected or important.
        An eminent programmer.
    Imminent (Adjective) - about to happen.
        Imminent disaster/danger.

