Be, Being, Been


Koi kaam krne ke baad -> Having + Verb 3rd form
Koi kaam khud par hone ke baad -> Having been + Verb 3rd form
Hone ke baad -> Having been + Object

After I scolded my son, I felt very bad.
    Having scolded my son, I felt very bad.

After the boss scolded me, I felt very bad.
    Having been scolded by the boss, I felt very bad.

After I sent him, I called you.
    Having sent him, I called you.

After he sent me, I called you.
    Having been sent by him, I called you.

// Having been -> Ke bad

Having been beaten by my father, I went outside and started crying.
Having been given a pen, he became very happy.
Having been asked all the questions, he left the examination hall.
Having been repaired, my mobile started working perfectly again.
Having been taught once, I never made a mistake on this topic.
Having been ignored by him, I never called him again.

Having been at home, I switched on the TV and started watching cricket.
Having been with you, I can say that you are very honest in your work.
Having been ill, he began to focus more his health.
Having been jobless, he started doing his own business.
Having been to Jaipur last year, I realized how beautiful that city was.
Having been in here for 3 years, I realized the importance of my own city.


Being + .....
-> Hone ke nate, honi ki wjah se

Since I am a teacher, it's my responsibility that I don't misguide you.
    Being a teacher, it's my responsibility that I don't misguide you.
As I am his best friend, I must help him in such an adverse situation.
    Being his best friend, I must help him in such an adverse situation.
For, she was slim, she could enter the house through this small window.
    Being slim, she could enter the house through this small window.
I am your brother, I can't leave you alone here.
    Being your brother, I can't leave you alone here.



Will + Verb 1st form -> Will be + Verb 4th form -> Is/am/are + Going to + Verb 1st form

I'll come to your home today.
    I will be coming to your home today.
    I am going to come your home today.
    // contraction of going to
        I am gonna come your home today.
He will go for movie with his friends.
    He will be going for movie with his friends.
    He is going to go for movie with his friends.
They will not play on that ground.
    They will not be playing on that ground.
    They are not going to play on that ground.
Will you guys plan a trip to USA?
    Will you guys be planing a trip to USA?
    Are you guys going to plan a trip to USA?


To-be
-> Hone wala

// - is must

He is my to-be boss.
She is Aman's to-be wife.
Her to-be husband is a businessman.
No astrologer in the world can predict about to-be events.
I met my to-be manager in the market yesterday.



Is/Am/Are/Was/Were -> To be
// no -

It is said that he is at home before 11 o'clock.
    He is said to be at home before 11 o'clock.
It was supposed that he was very helpful by nature.
    He was supposed to be very helpful by nature.
It is said that they always ready to help people.
    They are said to be always ready to help people.
It is expected that all the clothes are kept properly in the cupboard.
    All the clothes are expected to be kept properly in the cupboard.


I'm happy that I have a good job.
    I'm happy to have a good job.
I'm very happy that I am your best friend.
    I'm happy to be your best friend.
He is very happy that he is doing a good business.
    He is very happy to be doing a good business.
He was disappointed that he was unemployed.
    He was disappointed to be unemployed.
We are lucky that we are in your team.
    We are lucky to be in your team.


Hona
-> Subject = Being = To be
-> Object = Being, To be or Either

Being late is not a good habit.
    To be late is not a good habit.
Being with you is always fun.
    To be with you is always fun.
Being selfish is in his blood.
    To be selfish is in his blood.
I love being here for hours.
    I love to be here for hours.
I enjoy being with my parents.
    I enjoy to be with my parents.
He decided being in my team.
    He decided to be in my team.
We have preferred being at home.
    We have preferred to be at home.
I hate being in the office on Sunday.
    I hate to be in the office on Sunday.

But the thing is grammatically, some verbs are like if we use them in objective part, we can't use gerund (+ing) or with some we can't use infite particple (to + verb).
But for speaking, we can use any because native speakers speak that way.



Imperative Sentences
-> Hona/Banna/Rehna

Be honest.
Be kind.
Be cautious.
Be still.
Be at home.
Be my friend.
Let it be.
Let him be here.
Let us be in the class.


Hona/Banna/Rehna

I am thinking to be in the part for the next 2 hours.
They promised to be with Rahul as long as he is on the field.
We want to be in your team because you are a very good captian.
My sister wants to be a doctor.
I want to be your best friend.
He pretends to be working, though he isn't.
I like to be known as a teacher.
He is being crazy to meet him.
You are being stronger day be day.


