Modal Verbs Practice.

Practice.
Woh 2 ghnty se parh rhi hoti, mgr uska bag kho gya hai.
    She would have been studying but her bag is lost.
Woh 2 ghnty se parh rhi ho gi, kiu k uske pas uska bag hai.
    She would have been studying for 2 hours because she has her bag.
Ab uske kharche tumhe uthane pren gyn.
    Now, you will have to bare his expenses.
Uske pas kuch to hona hi chahiye tha.
    He must have had at least something.
    He should have to have at least something.
Apko kal school jana par skta tha.
    You could have had to go to school yesterday.
    You may have had to go to school yesterday.
    You might have had to go to school yesterday.
Kash mai doctor ban gya hota.
    I wish, I would have become a doctor.
Kash mai doctor ban pata.
    I wish, I could become a doctor.
2025 tk mere pas car ho skti hai.
    I could have a car by 2025.
    I can have a car by 2025.
    I may have a car by 2025.
    I might have a car by 2025.
Apko is waqt ghar par hona chahiye tha.
    You should have been at home at this time.
Apko us din waha jana para hoga.
    You would have had to go there that day.
Apko waha roz jana parta hoga.
    You would have to go there every day.
Apko kal SJ se milna par skta tha.
    You could have had to meet SJ yesterday.
Is sabzi ko tel me bhoona ja skta hai.
    This vegetable could be fried in oil.
    This vegetable can be fried in oil.
    This vegetable may be fried in oil.
    This vegetable might be fried in oil.
Tum nal khol sakte thy par tumne nhi khola.
    You could have turned the tap on, but you didn't.
Uske pas bolne ke liye kuch to hona chahiye tha.
    He should have had at least something to speak.
    He had to have at least something to speak.
Mere pas laptop hona chahiye tha, tabhi mai apki madad kar pata.
    I should have had a laptop, only then I could help you.
Kia app Rakesh ko phone kar paogy?
    Will you be able to call Rakesh?
Bachon ko mobile nhi diya jana chahiye.
    The children should not be given mobiles.
Yeh offer kisi ko bhi lalcha skta hai.
    This offer can tempt anyone.
    This offer could tempt anyone.
    This offer may tempt anyone.
    This offer might tempt anyone.
Tumhe mujhe yaad dilana chahiye tha.
    You should have reminded me.
Woh har samay Rahul ke sath hota tha.
    He used to be with Rahul every time.
    He would be with Rahul every time.
Kia mai sham ko apko call kru?
    Shall I call you in the evening?
    Do I call you in the evening?
Woh aesa kiu krta?
    Why would he do so?
Woh wahan jane ki himmat kiu krta hai?
    Why does he dare to go there?
    Why dare he go there?
Woh ap par hath uthane ki himmat kese kar skta hai?
    How can he dare to raise his hand on you?
Apko is waqt school me zrur hona chahiye tha.
    You should have been in school right now.
    You must have been in school right now.
Bus subha nikal chuki hogi.
    The bus would have left in the morning.
Kia app chahenge ke mai aau?
    Would you like me to come?
Kia app nhi chahengy ke mai aau?
    Would you not like me to come?
    Wouldn't you like me to come?
Kia app chahengy ke main na aau?
    Would you like me not to come?
Mai 2004 se Delhi me tha.
    I had been in Delhi since 2004.
Usne pakka bus se yatra ki hogi.
    He will have travelled by bus.
    He must have travelled by bus.
Mujhe pehle se hi andaza tha k woh yaha nhi ayega.
    I already had an idea that he would not come here.
Jald hi apke pas aek achi nokri ho skti hai.
    You could have a good job soon.
    You can have a good job soon.
    You may have a good job soon.
    You might have a good job soon.
SJ agla match khel raha hoga.
    SJ will be playing the next match.
SJ abhi khel raha hoga.
    SJ would be playing right now.
Ghar se nikalne se pehly woh aek cup Coffee pee skti thi.
    She could have had a cup of coffee before leaving the house.
        -> had is main verb here.
        -> if we use drunk, it may sound little odd.
        -> That's why we used "had" "3rd form of have" (have a coffee).
Agr uske pas bhi achi naukri hoti to uske pas bhi aek acha ghr ho skta tha.
    If he also had a good job, he could have had a good house too.
Shayed barish ho rhi ho gi.
    It might be raining.
Shayed woh tumse miley.
    He might meet you.
Ajj woh us company me kaam kar raha hota.
    Today, He would be working in that company.
Use waha jane ki zarurat nhi parti hai.
    He need not go there.
    He doesn't need to go there.
Kia use waha nhi jana pra?
    Had he not to go there?
    Did he not have to go there?
Kia mai apse kal mil skta hu?
    May I meet you tomorrow?
Mai 6 bje uthta tha jab mai bacha tha.
    I used to wake up at 6 when I was a kid.
    I would wake up at 6 when I was a kid.
Hme subha nashta zrur krna chahiye tha.
    We must have eaten breakfast in the morning.
    We must have had breakfast in the morning.
        -> again, "had" -> 3rd form of have as main verb.
Tumhe kal us se milna tha.
    You had to meet him yesterday.
    You were to meet him yesterday.
Use kia kehna hai?
    What has he to say?
    What is he to say?
Apko kisi bhi shehar bheja ja skta hai.
    You could be sent to any city.
    You can be sent to any city.
    You might be sent to any city.
    You may be sent to any city.
Mujhe waha roz jana parta tha.
    I had to go there every day.
SJ ko sochna par raha hai.
    SJ is having to think.
    SJ has to think.
App mujh se kal mil skte hain.
    You could meet me tomorrow.
    You can meet me tomorrow.
    You may meet me tomorrow.
    You might meet me tomorrow.




