Important Structures of English Speaking


Can't help
-> Kiye bina nah reh pana

// After can't help use ing form of verb.

    Agar tum koi gana chala do, to mai dance kiye bina nhi reh skta.
        If you play a song, then I can't help dancing.

    I can't help eating fruits every day.
    He can't help thinking about you.
    Whenever I see this movie, I can't help praising it.
    Whenever I go to the LIC office, I can't help talking to Mr. Sharma, because he is an amazing person.
    I can't help falling in love with you.



How about
-> Kia khayal hai?

// ing form.

    Ajj movie jane ke bare me kia khayal hai?
        How about going for a movie today?
    Kia kehta hai agle mahine car khareed lu?
        How about buying a car next month.
    Kia khayal hai, ajj ki party me SJ ko bula liya jaye?
        How about inviting SJ in today's party?

How come
-> Aesa kese?

// Introductory Clause - Silence for some 1 2 seconds after "how come".
// ?

    Aesa kese ke woh vipreet situations me bhi hasta rehta hai?
        How come that he keeps smiling even in adverse circumstances?
    App yaha kes?
        How come you are here?
        What brings you here?
    Apne yeh kese kiya?
        How did you do this?
        How come you did it?
    Log uski faltu baton ko bhul kese jate hain?
        How come people forget his non-sense talks?

As to + WH
-> Ke

    Mai achy se janta hu ke woh aesa kiu kr raha hai.
        I know very well, that why is he saying so? -> Wrong
        I know very well, that why he is saying so. -> Some Correct
        // But that is not good here, because WH is here.
        I know very well, why he is saying so. -> Correct
        I know very well, as to why he is saying so. -> Correct
        // Totally valid
    Apko andaza nhi hai ke app kis se baat kr rehy ho.
        You have no idea whom you're talking to.
        You have no idea as to whom you're talking to.
    Usne apni mummy se pucha ki har koi usi ko kiu dant ta hai.
        He asked his mother why everyone scolds him only.
        He asked his mother as to why everyone scolds him only.

What if
-> Kia ho agar

    Agar ajj woh office nhi aya to?
        What if he doesn't come to the office today?
        If he doesn't come to the office today, then?
    Agar tere papa ne tujhe hamare sath jane nahi diya hota to?
        What if your father had not let you go with us?
    Agar us din hum sath khel rahe hoty to?
        What if we were playing together that day?

It's not use
-> Koi faida nhi hai

// ing form.

    Waha jane ka koi faida nhi hai.
        It's no use going there.
    Maafi mangne se kuch nhi hoga, app khud waha jao or use manao.
        It's no use saying sorry, you go there yourself and convince him.
    Gussa kar ke kia ho ga, tujhe yeh karna to padega hi na?
        It's no use getting angry, you will have to do it, won't you?

Look forward to
-> Khushi se wait krna

// ing form

    Waha jane ko le kar mai bht excited ho raha hu.
        I'm looking forward to going there.
    Woh is saal ke end tak apne business me aek zabardast growth ki umeed kar raha hai.
        He is looking forward to a significant growth in his business by the end of this year.
    Mai kal tumse milne ke liye besabra ho raha hu.
        I'm looking forward to meeting you tomorrow.
            // after to, we are using verb ing form. - because it is kind of pharasal verb.

No way that
-> Matlab hi nhi hai

    Matlab hi nhi hai k ajj raat woh party me nah aye.
        No way that he doesn't come to the party tonight.
    Ho hi nhi skta k agle saal tk mere pass job nah ho.
        No way that I will not have a job by the next year.
    Sawal hi paida nhi hota k woh tera paisa mar le.
        No way that he doesn't return your money.

Have a hard time
-> Dikkat hona

// ing form

    Itni kam salary me ghar ka kharcha chalane me mujhe dikkat aa rhi hai.
        I'm having a hard time affording my livelihood in such a low salary.

    He is having a hard time repairing your mobile.
    I had a very hard time playing today because my leg was paining badly.
    You will have a hard time growing your business but if you keep patience, you will definitely do something great.
    We generally have a hard time learning English because we are working too.
    I'm not having a hard time running my business because everything is going well.


















