Happen, Happen to be, Happen to have

Happen
    -> Hona

Kia hua?
    What happend?
Tumhe kia hua?
    What happend to you?
Yaha kia kia hua?
    What all happend here?
Jo hota hai achy ke liye hota hai.
    Whatever happens, happens for good.
Yeh har kisi ke sath hota hai.
    It happens with everyone.

Happen (s, ed) to + Verb 1st form -> Indefinite Tense
Happen (s, ed) to be + Object -> Simple Sentence - Category 1
Happen (s, ed) to be + Verb 1st form + ing -> Continuous Tense
Happen (s, ed) to have + Object -> Simple Sentence - Category 2
Happen (s, ed) to have + Verb 3rd form -> Perfect Tence

// If present - s (tense rule)
// If past - ed (tense rule)

Ittegaq se mai school jate waqt roz use milta hu.
    Coincidentally, I meet him every day while going to school.
    I happen to meet him every day while going to school.
Sayong se woh school jate waqt roz mujh se milta hai.
    Coincidentally, he meets me every day while going to school.
    He happens to meet me every day while going to school.

Sayong dekhiye, mai school jate waqt roz us se milta tha.
    Coincidentally, I met him every day while going to school.
    Coincidentally, I would meet him every day while going to school.
    Coincidentally, I used to meet him every day while going to school.
    I happened to met him every day while going to school.
    I would happened to meet him every day while going to school.
Qismat se woh har match jeet jata hai.
    Luckily, he wins every match.
    He happens to win every match.
    Luckily he happens to win every match.
Uska durbhagya hai ki woh har match har jata hai.
    Unfortunately, he loses every match.
    He happens to lose every match.
Jab bhi mai use call krta hu, saynog ki baat hai ke woh ghar par hota hai.
    Whenever I call him, coincidentally, he is at home.
    Whenever I call him, he happens to be at home.
Mai jab bhi use call krta hu, sanyog ki bat hai ki woh khel raha hota hai.
    Whenever I call him, coincidentally, he is playing.
    Whenever I call him, he happens to be playing.
Jab bhi mai use call krta hu, qismat se tab uske pas apna laptop hota hai.
    Whenever I call him, luckily, he has his laptop then.
    Whenever I call him, he happens to have his laptop then.
Mai jab bhi use call krta hu, badqismati se woh office se nikal chuka hota hai.
    Whenever I call him, unfortunately, he has left the office.
    Whenever I call him, he happens to have left the office.
Mai jab bhi use call krta tha, badqismati se woh office se nikal chuka hota tha.
    Whenever I call him, unfortunately, he had left the office.
    Whenever I call him, he happened to have left the office.
Qismat se woh ghar phnch chuka tha, warna woh mushkil me par jata.
    Luckily, he had reached home; otherwise, he would have been in trouble.
    He happened to have reached home; otherwise, he would have been in trouble.
Qismat se hum khel nhi rhy thy, wrna hum bht mushkil me par jate.
    Luckily, we were not playing; otherwise, we would have been in huge trouble.
    We happened to be not playing; otherwise, we would have been in huge trouble.


// Why we're replacing these words by happen.
// Because there is a word "hap" which means "coincident, sayong, qismat, luckily, etc...".
// So we use this.

Badqismati se usdin uske pas paise nhi thy.
    Unfortunately, he had no money that day.
    He happened to have no money that day.
Badqismati se ajj uske pas paise nhi hain.
    Unfortunately, he has no money today.
    He happens to have no money today.
Mai itefaq se usdin ghar pe tha, or woh tapak gya.
    Coincidentally, I was at home that day and he dropped in.
    I happened to be at home that day and he dropped in.



