Auxilary Verbs Practice.

Hota hai/Rehta hai.
    Is/Am/Are

Practice.
Jab dekho, woh maidaan par hota hai.
    He is always on the field.
    He is always on the ground.
Mai hamesha maidaan par rehta hu.
    I am always on the field.
    I am always on the ground.
Sach to sach hota hai, chahy app kitna bhi andekha kar lo.
    The truth is the truth, no matter how much you ignore it.
Mai 5 bje ghar par hota hoon, app aa jana.
    I am at home at 5 o'clock, you come.
Hum jab bhi usse call krte hain, woh gym me rehta hai.
    Whenever we call him, He is in the gym.

Hota tha/Rehta tha.
    Used to be/Would be

Practice.
Un dino, hum har pal sath rehte thy.
    Those days, we used to be together every moment.
    Those days, we used to be together every time.
    Those days, we would be together every moment.
    Those days, we would be together every time.
Mai jab bhi usse call krta tha, woh gym me rehta tha.
    Whenever I used to call him, He used to be in the gym.
    Whenever I used to call him, He would be in the gym.
    Whenever I called him, He would be in the gym.
    Whenever I called him, He used to be in the gym.
Woh doctor 11 bje clinic me rehte thy isiliye mai ne usi samay ki appointment li.
    That doctor used to be in the clinic at 11 o'clock, that's why I took the appointment of that time only.
    That doctor would be in the clinic at 11 o'clock, that's why I took the appointment of that time only.

Hota ho ga/Rehta ho ga.
    Would be/Must be/Might be

Practice.
App is waqt office me rehte hon gy.
    You would be in the office at this time.
    You must be in the office at this time.
    You might be in the office at this time.
App pakka is waqt office me rehte hon gy.
    You must be in the office at this time.
App shayed is waqt office me rehte hon gy.
    You might be in the office at this time.
Jab bhi app use call krte ho, woh class me hota ho ga; shayed isiliye woh apka phone nhi uthata.
    Whenever you call him, he must be in the class; maybe that's why, he does not pick your phone.
    Whenever you call him, he would be in the class; maybe that's why, he does not pick your phone.
    Whenever you call him, he must be in the class; maybe that's why, he does not pick up your phone.
    Whenever you call him, he would be in the class; maybe that's why, he does not pick up your phone.

Krta hai/Kiya krta hai.
    Present Indefinite.

Krta tha/Kiya krtat tha.
    Past Indefinite.
    Used to + Verb 1st form.
    Would + Verb 1st form.

Krta hoga/Krta rehta hoga.
    Would/Must/Might + be + Verb 1st form + ing.

Practice.
Woh ajj kal school jata ho ga.
    He would be going to school nowadays.
    He would be going to school these days.
Woh ajkal pakka school jata ho ga.
    He must be going to school these days.
    He must be going to school nowadays.
Woh ajkal shayed school jata ho ga.
    He might be going to school these days.
    He may be going to school these days.
    He might be going to school nowadays.
    He may be going to school these nowadays.
Woh ajj kal school nhi jata ho ga.
    He would not be going to school these days.
    He must not be going to school these days.
SJ har hafte apke ghr aata rehta hoga.
    He would be comming to your house every week.
App aksar USA jate rehte hon gy.
    You would be going to USA very often.
    You would be often going to USA.
    You would be often visiting to USA.
Woh ajj kal khelne nhi jata hoga.
    He would not be going to play nowadays.
    He might not be going to play nowadays.
    He must not be going to play nowadays.
Jab bhi mai use call krta tha, woh park me hota tha.
    Whenever I used to call him, He used to be in the park.
    Whenever I used to call him, He would be in the park.
Hum school me hamesha sath rehte thy.
    We used to be together in school.
Hum un dino USA me rehte thy.
    We used to live in USA those days.
App aksar USA jate rehty hon gyn.
    You would be going to USA very often.

