Conditional Sentences Practice

Agar kutton ko pyar kro to woh apni puch hilate hain.
    If we love the dogs, they move their tails.
Agar hum America me rehty to mai English bolta.
    If we lived in America, I would speak English.
Agar hum America me rehty to mai English bol pata.
    If we lived in America, I could speak English.
Agar hum America me rehty to mai English bol raha hota.
    If we lived in America, I would be speaking English.
Agar paper thora or asan ata, to mere number achy aa gye hote.
    If the paper had been a little easier, I would have scored better.
    Had the paper been a little easier, I would have scored better.
Agar mai crorepati hota to mai gareebon ki madad kar pata.
    If I were a millionaire, I could help the poor.
Agar mai crorepati hota to mai gareebon ki madad karta.
    If I were a millionaire, I would help the poor.
Agar mai crorepati hota to mai gareebon ki madad kar raha hota.
    If I were a millionaire, I would be helping the poor.
Agar mai crorepati nhi hota, to mai garibon ki madad kaise kar pata?
    If I had not been a millionaire, How could I have helped the poor?
    Had I not been a millionaire, How could I have helped the poor?
Agar usdin mummy ne han kaha hota, to mai khelne ja skta tha.
    If mummy had said yes that day, I could have gone to play.
    Had mummy said yes that day, I could have gone to play.
Agar mummy han keh deti, to mai khelne ja pata.
    If mummy said yes, I could go to play.
Agar driver tez speed se gari nhi chala raha hota to hadsa nhi hota.
    If the driver had not been driving the car at high speed, the accident would not have happened.
    Had the driver not been driving the car at high speed, the accident would not have happened.
Agar Virat abhi tk khel raha hota, to uska shatak ho shuka hota.
    If Virat had been playing even now, he would have scored a centurey.
    If Virat had still been playing, he would have scored a centurey.
    If Virat had yet been playing, he would have scored a centurey.
    Had Virat been playing even now, he would have scored a centurey.
    Had Virat still been playing, he would have scored a centurey.
    Had Virat yet been playing, he would have scored a centurey.



