Rather, Rather than, Would rather


Rather
    -> Balke
    -> Jabke
    -> Ulta

// We can start a sentence by "Rather" or we can use "Rather" before the main verb.
// We can also use "instead" instead of "rather".

Practice:
    Balke yeh mujhe ziada mehnga pre ga.
        Rather, It'll cost me more.
        Instead, It'll cost me more.
        It'll rather cost me more.
        It'll instead cost me more.
    Woh to blke cricket ziada khelta hai.
        Rather, he playes cricket more.
        Instead, he playes cricket more.
        He rather playes cricket more.
        He instead playes cricket more.
    Apse milna to balki mere liye khushi ki bat hai.
        Rather, it's my pleasure to meet you.
        Instead, it's my pleasure to meet you.
    Ulta use to ghar me rehna ziada acha lgta hai.
        Rather, He loves a lot to stay at home.
        Instead, He loves a lot to stay at home.


Rather
    -> Balke - Is se bhi barh kar

// We can use "In Fact" instead of "Rather" in that case.

Practice:
    Tum mere achy dost ho, balke mere sabse ache dost ho.
        You're my good friend, rather my best friend.
        You're my good friend, in fact my best friend.
    Mai aek jacket lena chahta hu, balke leather jacket.
        I want to buy a jacket, rather a leather jacket.
        I want to buy a jacket, in fact a leather jacket.
    Mai tumse milna chahta hu, blke mai to tumhare ghar aana chaahta hu.
        I want to meet you, rather I want to come to your home.
        I want to meet you, in fact I want to come to your home.


Rather than
    -> Bajaye iske

// After "rather than" the form of verb would be "1st form + ing" for activity.
// We can also use "instead of" instead of "rather than".

Practice:
    Tumhe lassi peeni chahiye, bajaye coke peene ke.
        You should drink lassi rather than drinking coke.
        You should have lassi rather than having coke.
        You should drink lassi instead of drinking coke.
        You should have lassi instead of having coke.
    Is waqt parhne ki bajaye, tum khel kiu rahe ho?
        Rather than studying at this time, why are you playing?
        Instead of studying at this time, why are you playing?
    Woh Mumbai ja raha hai, bajaye Delhi jane ke.
        He is going to Mumbai rather than going to Delhi.
        He is going to Mumbai instead of going to Delhi.

Would rather ... than = Would ... rather than

// For choice, we can use "would rather" ... "than".

Practice:
    Mai burger ki bajaye momos khau ga.
        I'll eat momos rather than burger.
        I would rather eat momos than burger.
    Mai burgers ki bajaye, momos khana pasnd kru ga.
        I would like to eat momos rather than burger.
        I would rather like to eat momos than burger.
    Woh movie jane ki bajaye ghar par rahe ga.
        He will stay at home rather than going for a movie.
        He would rather stay at home than going for a movie.
    woh mujhe jane ki bajaye ghar par rehna pasand kre ga.
        He would like to stay at home rather than going for a movie.
        He would rather like to stay at home than going for a movie.






