Conjunctions.

Conjunctions plays a huge role in sentences.
They link sentences.

Some conjunctions have so many meanings.
If the same conjunction is present at the start of sentence, it's meaning could be different.
Or if the same conjunction is present at the end, or between the sentence, it's meaning can change differently.

The Problem.
Let's say I have to say these 2 sentences:
    SJ is a good boy.
    JS is a good boy.
Now I have to connect them. So I'll use "and" conjunction.
    SJ and JS are good boys.

2nd Example:
    I was unwell.
    I didn't go to the office yesterday.
Linked:
    Since I was unwell, I didn't go to the office yesterday.

Start

And
    -> Or
    Practice
        SJ and JS are good friends.
        He is sending you and me to Mumbai.

Or
    -> Ya
    Practice
        You can buy this book or that book.
        What shall I give you, this or that?
        What do I give you, this or that?

But
    -> Lekin, Par, Parantoo
    -> Siwaye, Ilawa
        // We can also use "Except" for siwaye, ilawa.
    -> Blke
        // We can also use "Rather" for blke.
    Practice
        SJ or JS achy dost hain par woh aek dusre se larte hain.
            SJ and JS are good friends but they fight with each other.
        Woh bht samajhdar hai par uske pas paise nhi hain.
            He is very intelligent but he doesn't have money.
        Mai tumhare ghar ke siwa kahi bhi ja skta hoon.
            I can go anywhere but not your home.
            I can go anywhere except your home.
        Mai kuch bhi kar skta hu siwaye tumhe peetne ke.
            I can do anything but not beat you.
            I can do anything except beat you.
        Woh chiken ke ilawa kuch bhi kha skta hai.
            He can eat anything but not chicken.
            He can eat anything except chicken.
        Yeh pen nhi blke pencil hai.
            This is not a pen but a pencil.
            This is not a pen rather a pencil.
        SJ bewkoof nhi blke aek samajhdar larka hai.
            SJ is not an idiot but a sensible boy.
            SJ is not an idiot rather a sensible boy.
        Use danta nhi gya, blke peeta gya.
            He was not scolded but beaten.
            He was not scolded rather beaten.

For/As/Because/Since
    -> Kiun ki / Choon ki
    Rules:
        "Since" is used only at the beginning of the sentence.
        "Because" is used only in the middle of the sentence.
        Always use comma (,) just before "For" if used in the middle of the sentence.
        We can use "as" anywhere, between or starting of the sentence.
    Practice
        Mai nhi aya kiu ki mai beemar tha.
            I didn't come because I was unwell.
            I didn't come as I was unwell.
            I didn't come, for I was unwell.
            I didn't come since I was unwell.
                -> Wrong
        Choon ke mai beemar tha, mai nhi aya.
            Since I was unwell, I didn't come.
            As I was unwell, I didn't come.
            For I was unwell, I didn't come.
            Because I was unwell, I didn't come.
                -> Wrong.

Also/Even/Either/Too/As well
    -> Bhi
    Rules:
        "Also" is generally not used in negative sentences.
        "Even", "Too" and "As well" are used in both positive and negative sentences.
        'wither' is always used in negative sentences.
        'Also' is used after the helping verb and before the main verb.
        "Too", "As well" and "Either" are used at the end.
        "Even" is used at the beginning of the sentences.
        "Even" is not used in interrogative sentences.
    Practice
        Mai bhi aek acha insaan hu.
            I'm also a good person.
            Even I am a good person.
            I am a good person too.
            I am a good person as well.
        Mai bhi aek acha insaan nhi hu.
            Even I am not a good person.
            I am not a good person too.
            I am not a good person as well.
            I am not a good person either.
        Mai bhi phal pasand nhi krta.
            Even I don't like fruits.
            I don't like fruits either.
            I don't like fruits too.
            I don't like fruits as well.
        Kia tum bhi waha nhi thy?
            Were you not there either?
            Were you not there too?
            Were you not there as well?

So/Hence/That's why/Therefore/That's the reason
    -> Is liye
    Practice
        Mai beemar tha, is liye mai nhi aya.
            I was unwell, so I didn't come.
            I was unwell, hence I didn't come.
            I was unwell, that's why I didn't come.
            I was unwell, therefore I dind't come.
            I was unwell, that's the reason I didn't come.
        Usne dhang se nhi parha is liye woh pariksha me fail ho gya.
            He didn't study well, so he failed the exam.
            He didn't study well, hence he failed the exam.
            He didn't study well, that's why he failed the exam.
            He didn't study well, therefore he failed the exam.
            He didn't study well, that's the reason he failed the exam.

As
    -> Jaisa
    -> Ke tor par
    -> Ke natey
    Practice
        Jaisa app kahen.
            As you say.
        Jaisi apki marzi.
            As you wish.
        Mai ne kiya jaisa apne kaha.
            I did as you said.
        Mai yaha manager ke tor par kaam kar raha hu.
            I'm working here as a manager.
        Aek teacher hony k nate yeh mera farz hai k mai apne students ko sahi english sikhau.
            As a teacher, it's my duty to teach correct English to my students.

As soon as
    -> Jaise hi/Joon hi
    We can also use "The moment" as a replacement of "As soon as".
    Rules:
        We'll have to use "Present Indefinite Tense" with "As soon as" when we speak about the future. We should not use will.
    Practice
        Jaise hi mai tujhe call kru tu nikal jana.
            As soon as I call you, you leave.
            The moment I call you, you leave.
        Jaise hi woh tujhe call kre tu nikal jana.
            As soon as he calls you you leave.
            The moment he calls you, you leave.
        Jaise hi woh aya, mai chala gya.
            As soon as he came, I left.
            The moment he came, I left.
        Jaise hi woh aye ga, mai office nikal jau ga.
            As soon as he comes, I'll leave for the office.
                -> Look, I dinn't used "will come" I used like present indefinite tense for the "as soon as" clause.
                // Second clause is totally different. So we can use "will".
            The moment he comes, I'll leave for the office.
                -> Same rule.

As well as
    -> Sath hi sath
    Rules:
        When two subjects are joined with "as well as", the verb of the sentence should be used as per the first subject.
    Practice
        SJ parha likha hai, sath hi sath uske mata pita bhi parhe likhe hain.
            SJ is educated as well as his parents are also educated.
        Woh acha football khelta hai sath hi sath woh class me first bhi ata hai.
            He plays football very well as well as he stands first in the class.
        Woh sath hi sath uske 3 bhai America ja rhy hain.
            He as well as his three brothers is going to America.
                // We dont' use "are" with this, we use "is" because of the rule.
                // We decide helping verb as per the first subject.
                    // In that case, it is singular, so we used "is".
        Mai sath hi sath mere dost bhi yahan hain.
            Me as well as my friends am here.
                // Same rule.
                // We used "am" because the first subject is "first person singular".
        // We can use "and" instead of "as well as" to avoid that rule.
            For Example:
                Me and my friends are going there.
                He and his brothers are going there.

As far as
    -> Jaha tak
    Practice
        Jaha tk mai janta hu, uske 2 bachy hain.
            As far as I know, he has two children.
        Jaha tk mujhe pta hai, uski shadi ho chuki hai.
            As far as I know, he is married.
        Jaha tk meri parhai ka sawal hai, mai 12th pass hu.
            As far as my study is concerned, I'm only 12th pass.
        Jaha tk mere bhai ka sawal hai, usne graduation kr li hai.
            As far as my brother is concerned, he has done graduation.
        Jaha tk mere parivar ka sawal hai, mummy papa ke ilawa meri 2 behnen hain.
            As far as my family is concerned, apart from mummy and papa I have two sisters.

As + {Adjective} + As / So + {Adjective} + As
    -> Utna {Adjective} Jitna
    Rules:
        We can use "As + {Adjective} + As" for Positive and Negative sentences.
        We can use "So + {Adjective} + As" only for Negative sentences.
    Practice
        Utna lamba jitna Amit.
            As tall as Amit.
        Rakesh ke jitna chota.
            As short as Rakesh.
        Utna bara jitna tumhara ghar.
            As big as your house.
        Utna kala jitna koila.
            As black as coal.
        Tum mere jitne chalak ho.
            You are as clever as I am.
        Tum mere jitne chalak nhi ho.
            You are not as clever as I am.
            You are not so clever as I am.
        Kia tum mere jitna acha ga skty ho?
            Can you sing as good as I can?
            Can you sing as well as I can?
        Kia tum uske jitna acha nhi ga skte?
            Can't you sing as good as he can?
            Can't you sing so good as he can?

Although/Though/Even If/Even Though
    -> Bhale Hi
    -> Hala Ki
    -> Yadh Hi
Then also/even then/Yet/Still/However/Nevertheless
    -> Fir bhi
    -> Tab bhi
    -> Iske bawjood bhi

    Practice
        Bhale hi woh kabhi school nhi gya, fir bhi use sab ata hai.
            Even if he never went to school, then also he knows everything.
        Hala ke mere pas paise nhi hain, par iske bawjood mai tumhari madad krne ki poori koshish kru ga.
            Although I don't have money, yet I will try my best to help you.
        Hala ke mai ne yeh nhi kra hai, mgr fir bhi app jo bhi faisla kren gyn mai use manu ga.
            Though I haven't done it, still whatever you decide, I will accept.
        Hala ke mai beemar tha, tab bhi mai ne kaam kiya.
            Even though I was unwell, Nevertheless I worked.

Such
    -> Is trah ka / Aesa
Such as
    We can also use "For example (e.g)".
    -> Jaise ke (Example)
In such a way
    -> Is trah se / Aese

    Practice
        Aese log swarthi hoty hain.
            Such people are selfish.
        Aesi kyi kahaniyan mai sun chuka hu.
            I have heard many such stories.
        Aese bachy mujhe pasand nhi.
            I don't like such children.
        Mere pas kyi cheezen hain, jaise ke 4 computer, 2 laptop, 3 mobile ityadi.
            I have many things such as four computers, two laptops, three mobiles, etc.
            I have many things, e.g., four computers, two laptops, three mobiles, etc.
                // (e.g.) // full stop (.) at the end and then , to explain.
                // Full form of e.g. is Exempli Gratia
                    // It is an latin abrevation.
                // When we use e.g. we speak "For Example".
        Uske sath kyi log hain jaise ke Ravi, Rahul, Sanjay, etc.
            There are many people with him such as Ravi, Rahul, Sanjay, etc.
        Us ne is trah se mujhe ghoora k mujeh lga k woh mujh se larne wala hai.
            He stared at me in such a way that I thought he was going to fight me.
        Tum aese bolte ho k har koi tumhari baat sunna pasand krta hai.
            You speak in such a way that everyone loves to listen to you.

As If/As though
    -> Aese mano; Aese jaise ke

    Practice
        Tum to hme aese bta rhy ho jaise tumhe sab pta ho.
            You are telling us as if you know everything.
            You are telling us as though you know everything.
        Tum to aese bat kr rhe ho k mai tumhara dushman hu.
            You are talking as if I am your enemy.
            You are talking as though I am your enemy.
        Tum to mujhe aese dant rhy ho jaise tum mere boss ho.
            You are scolding me as if you are my boss.
            You are scolding me as though you are my boss.
        Woh mujh se aese vehvaar kr rhy thy k mai unka nokar hu.
            He was treating me as if I was his servant.
            He was treating me as though I was his servant.
                // If the sentence is of past, we use final clause as past. "was" instead of "is".

Either - Or
    -> Ya to yeh / Ya to woh

    Practice
        Ya to Ram jaye ga ya to mai jau ga.
            Either Ram will go or I will.
        Mai ya to Delhi jau ga ya Mumbai.
            I will either go to Delhi or Mumbai.
        Ya to tum galat ho ya to woh.
            Either you are wrong or he is.
        Ya to tum waha jao ya mujhe jane do.
            Either you go there or let me go.

Neither - Nor
    -> Nah yeh / Nah woh

    Practice
        Mai nah Delhi jau ga nah Mumbai.
            I will neither go to Delhi nor Mumbai.
        Nah mai Delhi jau ga nah woh.
            Neither I will go to Delhi nor he will.
        Nah tum galat ho nah woh.
            Neither you are wrong nor he is.
        Nah mai ne us se pucha nah usne mujhe btaya.
            Neithre I asked him nor he told me.

So
    -> Woh bhi

    Practice
        Tum ate ho, woh bhi ata hai.
            You come. He comes too.
            You come. So does he.
                // We can use this syntax as well.
                    // We start the sentence with "so" and helping verb + subject.
                        // This is not interrogative but uses some kind of interrogative syntax.
                        // Dont confuse between "?" and ".".
                        // Use ".".
            Mai ne tumse pucha. usne bhi.
                I asked you. He asked too.
                I asked you. So did he.
            Woh yeh kar paya. Mai bhi.
                He could do it. I could do it too.
                He could do it. So could I.


Not... Neither/Nor
    -> Nhi... Woh bhi nhi
    
    Practice
        Tum nhi atay, woh bhi nhi ata.
            You don't come, he doesn't come either.
            You don't come. Neither does he.
                // Same syntax as "So" previously.
            You don't come. Nor does he.
        Woh nhi ja paya, nah mai ja paya.
            He couldn't go. I couldn't go either.
            He couldn't go. Neither could I.
            He couldn't go. Nor could I.
        Mai ne nhi pucha, usne bhi nhi pucha.
            I didn't ask. he didn't ask either.
            I didn't ask. Nor did he.
            I didn't ask. Neither did he.

Not only ... But also
    -> Na keval yeh blke woh bhi/Yehi nhi blke or bhi.
    
    Practice
        Woh na keval mera manager hai blke mera dost bhi hai.
            He is not only the manager but also my friend.
        Woh nah keval angrezi blke punjabi bhi bol skta hai.
            He can speak not only English but also Punjabi.

Lest ... Should.
    -> Kahi aesa nah ho k/Kahi yeh nah ho k
    After lest, we use "should" in next clause always.

    Practice
        Waha mat jao, yeh nah ho k woh tumhe dante.
            Don't go there lest he should scold you.
        Mai mehnat kru ga kahi aesa nah ho k fail ho jau.
            I'll work hard lest I should fail.
        Sahi pata likho kahi aesa nah ho k courier kahi or chala jaye.
            Write the correct address lest the courier should go somewhere else.

Otherwise / or else
    -> Nhi to / wrna

    Practice
        Mujhe mehnat krni pre gi, wrna mai fail ho jau ga.
            I'll have to work hard otherwise I'll fail.
            I'll have to work hard or else I'll fail.
        Sahi pata likho wrna courier kahi or ja skta hai.
            Write the correct address otherwise the courier can go somewhere else.
            Write the correct address or else the courier can go somewhere else.
        Waha mt jao wrna woh tumhe dante ga.
            Don't go there otherwise he will scold you.
            Don't go there or else he will scold you.

So that / So as to
    -> Ta ke

    Practice
        Mai mehnat kru ga ta ke mai exam me pass ho sku.
            I'll work hard so that I could pass the exam.
            I'll work hard so as to be able to pass the exam.
                // We have to use first form of verb after "to".
                // We use "be able to" in that case.
        Sahi pata likho ta ke courier kahi or na chala jaye.
            Write the correct addres so that the courier doesn't go anywhere else.
            Write the correct addres so as to let the courier not go anywhere else.
                // Again, 1st form of verb after "to".
        Yeh bhi kro ta ke tum bhi keh sko k tumne bhi kuch kiya hai.
            Do it so that you could also say that you have done something.
            Do it so as to be able to say that you have done something.

Provided / But only when / But only if
    -> Bashart yeh / Agar / (basically on that condition).

    Rules:
        1. The clause with "Provided/But only when/But only if" must be in the present indefinite tense even if the clause appears to be in the future.

    Practice
    Mai tumse milu ga, basharte tum mujh se wada kro k tum mujhe Ravi ke bare me nhi pucho gy.
        I'll meet you, provided you promise me that you will not ask me about Ravi.
        I'll meet you, but only when you promise me that you will not ask me about Ravi.
        I'll meet you, but only if you promise me that you will not ask me about Ravi.
    Woh aye ga, par shart yeh hai k Amit nhi aye ga.
        He will come, provided Amit doesn't come.
        He will come, but only when Amit doesn't come.
        He will come, but only if Amit doesn't come.
            // it is future clause but written in present indefinite tense syntax because of the rule.
    Mai kitaab wapis kr du ga, par tab jab app mujh par penalty nah lgao to.
        I'll return the book but only when you don't impose a penalty on me.

That's what
    -> Yehi to / Yehi baat to / Wohi to / Wohi baat to
    (Talking about an issue or an non-living)
    // we can use "this is what" as well.

    Practice
        Yehi baat to mai keh raha tha.
            That's what I was saying.
        Yehi to mere paas nhi hai.
            That's what I don't have.
        Wohi baat to mujhe confuse kr rhi hai.
            That's what is confusing me.
        Yehi to tum use samjha rhy thy.
            That's what you were making him understand.
        Yehi to mai dhund raha tha.
            That's what I was looking for.
        Yehi kitab to mai dhund raha tha.
            That's the book I was looking for.
                // we can use "the name" instead of "what" if we want to use the name of the subject.
        Wohi to mai ne waha dekha.
            That's what I saw there.
        Wohi pen to mai ne waha dekha.
            That's the pen I saw there.

That's whom
    -> Yehi to, Wohi to, Isi ko, Usi ko
    (Talking about a living being)

    Practice
        Mai ne usi ko danta tha.
            That's whom I had scolded.
        Hum sab madad ko ussi ko bula rhy thy.
            That's whom we all were calling for help.
        Ussi ko mai ne yeh kaam diya tha.
            That's whom I had given this task.
        Wohi to mai ne waha dekha.
            That's whom I saw there.
        Wohi ladka to mai ne waha dekha.
            That's the boy I saw there.
        Ussi ki baat mai kr raha tha.
            That's whom I as walking about.
        Ussi ladke ki baat mai kr raha tha.
            That's the boy I as talking about.

That's where
    -> Yehin to, Wahin to, Isi jgah to, Ussi jgah to

    Practice
        Mai wahi to ja raha hu.
            That's where I am going.
        Woh ussi jgah to khara tha.
            That's where he was standing.
        Hum yehin to mily thy usdin.
            That's where we had met that day.
        Apne yehi to mere sath momos khaye thy.
            That's where you had eaten momos with me.
            That's where you had had momos with me.

That's why
    -> Issi liye, Tabhi to
    
    Practice
        Tabhi to mai tumhe bta raha hu.
            That's why I'm informing you.
        Mai beemar tha, isi liye mai nhi aya.
            I was unwell, that's why I didn't come.
        Woh ghar par tha, isi liye mai ne call kra.
            He was at home that's why I called.
        Usne dhang se nhi parha, isi liye woh fail ho gya.
            He didn't study well, that's why he failed.

That's how
    -> Isi tarh to, Isi trah se

    Practice
        Mai ne aese e to cricket khelna seekha.
            That's how I learned to play cricket.
        Mere papa isi trah computer seekhy.
            That's who my father learned computer.
        Usne isi trah mujh se baat ki, wrna mai us se kiu larta!
            That's how he talked to me otherwise why would I fight him!
            That's how he talked to me or else why would I fight him!

That's when
    -> Tabhi, Usi samay

    Practice
        Usi samay mai ne bhi naukri join ki.
            That's when I also joined the job.
        Usi saal mai ne bhi naukri join ki.
            That's the year I also joined the job.
                // when we know clear name. Of the time.
        Jab papa aye, tabhi mera dost phnch gya.
            When papa came, that's when my friend reached too.

While + Verb + ing
    -> Kisi kaam ko krte hue dusra kaam krne k bare me btana

    Practice
        Mai chlte hue parh raha hu.
            I am studying while walking.
        Woh tumhe baat krte hue dekh raha tha.
            He was looking at you while talking to me.
        Kia Ravi parhte hue khata hai?
            Does Ravi eat while studying?
        Hum khelte hue lar rhy thy.
            We were fighting while playing.

While / Whereas
    -> Jab ke

    Practice
        Mere pas 10 rupe hain, jab ke tumhare pas 50.
            I have Rs 10 whereas you have 50.
            I have Rs 10 while you have 50.
        Jab Ravi ki shadi hui, tab woh 25 saal ka tha, jab ke uski patni 19 saal ki.
            When Ravi got married, he was 25 whereas his wife was 19.
            When Ravi got married, he was 25 while his wife was 19.

Still / Even now
    -> Abhi bhi, Ajj bhi

    Rules:
        "Still" is used after the helping verb and just before the main verb, whereas "Even now" is used either at the beginning or at the end of the sentence.
        "Even now" is generally used to express surprise or emphasis.

    Practice
        Mai abhi bhi parh raha hu.
            I'm still studying.
            I'm studying even now.
            Even now, I'm studying.
        Woh ajj bhi mujh se milta hai.
            He still meets me.
            He meets me even now.
            Even now, he meets me.
        Kia tumhara bhai abhi bhi khelta hai?
            Does your brother still play?
            Does your brother play even now?
                // We can't use still in the start so we use it before the main verb as it is an interrogative sentence.

Whether ... Or
    -> Chahy...Ya
    -> Ke...Ya

    Practice
        Chahy woh aye ya nah aye, mai to jau ga.
            Whether he comes or not, I'll go.
        Chahy usne kiya ya kisi or ne kiay, kul mila ke kaam ho gya.
            Whether he did it or someone else did it, ultimately the work is done.
        Chahy SJ khele ya nah khele, tumhe khelna chahiye.
            Whether SJ plays or not, you should play.
        Mai keh nhi skta k woh khele ga ya nhi.
            I can't say whether he will play or not.
        Mujhe nhi pta k woh waha jata hai ya kahi or.
            I don't know whether he goes there or somewhere else.
        Woh nhi janta tha k log ayen gyn bhi ya nhi.
            He didn't know whether people would come or not.

Hardly...when/No sooner had...than
    -> Hi tha

    Practice
        Mai pohncha hi tha, ke woh dono aa gye.
            I had hardly reached when they both came.
            No sooner had I reached than they both came.
            As soon as I reached, they both came.
            The moment I reached, they both came.
        Hum station pohnchy hi thy k train chl di.
            We had hardly reached the station when the train left.
            No sooner had we reached the station than the train left.
            As soon as we reached the station, the train left.
            The moment we reached the station, the train left.

As yet/Yet (negative)
Till now/By now/So far (positive + negative)
    -> Abhi tk, ajj tk

    Practice
        Mai ne abhi tk use nhi dekha hai.
            I have not seen him yet.
            I have not seen him as yet.
            I have not seen him till now.
            I have not seen him by now.
            I have not seen him so far.
        Usne abhi tk homework poora nhi kiya.
            He hasn't finished the homework yet.
            He hasn't finished the homework as yet.
            He hasn't finished the homework till now.
            He hasn't finished the homework by now.
            He hasn't finished the homework so far.
        Ab tk ka score kia hai?
            What's the score so far?
            What's the score by now?
            What's the score till now?
        Abhi tk apke pass kia kia hai?
            What all do you have so far?
            What all do you have by now?
            What all do you have till now?

Till/Till the time (negative)
    -> Jab tk
Until/Unless (negative)
    -> Jab tk nhi
    
    Rules:
        "Jab tk" wala clause me bhale hi Future Tense me ho, fir bhi Present Indefinite Tense me anusar hi bnaya jaye ga.
        
    Practice
        Jab tk mai nhi ata, use call mt krna.
            Until I come, don't call him.
            Unless I come, don't call him.
            Till I don't come, don't call him.
            Till the time I don't come, don't call him.
        Jab tk usne nhi pucha, hum chup rhy.
            Until he asked, we kept quiet.
            Unless he asked, we kept quiet.
            Till he didn't ask, we kept quiet.
            Till the time he didn't ask, we kept quiet.
        Hum nhi khayen gyn, jab tk woh nhi aye ga.
            We will not eat until he comes.
            We'll not eat unless he comes.
            We'll not eat till he doesn't come.
            We'll not eat till the time he doesn't come.
        Jab tk app han nhi kahen gyn, koi nhi hiley ga.
            Until you say yes, nobody will move.
            Unless you say yes, nobody will move.
            Till you don't say yes, nobody will move.
            Till the time you don't say yes, nobody will move.
        Jab tk Amit mujhe anumati nhi de ga, mai chup rhu ga.
            Until Amit allows me, I'll keep quiet.
            Unless Amit allows me, I'll keep quiet.
            Till Amit doesn't allows me, I'll keep quiet.
            Till the time Amit doesn't allows me, I'll keep quiet.

By the time (positive)
    -> Jab tk
As long as/While/Till/Till the time (positive)
    -> Jab tk

    Practice
        Jab tk woh aye, mai ja chuka tha.
            By the time he came, I had left.
                // ulta ho gya
        Jab tk app Angrezi seekho gy, duniya French seekh rhi ho gi.
            By the time you learn English, the workd will be learning French.
                // ulta ho gya
        Jab tk app angrezi seekho gy, mai dance seekhu ga.
            As long as you learn English, I'll learn dance.
            While you learn English, I'll learn dance.
                // jab tk (period), koi ulti baat nhi
            Till you learn English, I'll learn dance.
            Till the time you learn English, I'll learn dance.
        Jab tk tum yaha ho, mai bhi ruku ga.
            As long as you're here, I'll also stay.
            While as you're here, I'll also stay.
            Till as you're here, I'll also stay.
            Till the time you're here, I'll also stay.
        Jab tk tum mere sath ho, mai larta rhu ga.
            As long as you are with me, I'll keep fighting.
            While you're with me, I'll keep fighting.
            Till you're with me, I'll keep fighting.
            Till the time you're with me, I'll keep fighting.
            





    








            

