Practice

Woh pakka har subha roz walk par jata hoga.
    He would go for a walk every morning.
    He would definitely go for a walk every morning.
    He must go for a walk every morning.
    He would be going for a walk every morning.
    He would definitely be going for a walk every morning.
    He would be definitely going for a walk every morning.
    He must be going for a walk every morning.
Apko yeh baat kisi ko batane ki zarurat nhi hai.
    You don't need to tell anyone about it.
    You needn't tell anyone about it.
Apne bete ko dantne ke baad, mujhe bht bura lga.
    After scolding my son, I felt very bad.
    After I scolded my son, I felt very bad.
    Having scolded my son, I felt very bad.
Mai kal market me apne hone waly manager se mila.
    I met my to-be manager in the market yesterday.
Mujhe khelne diya gya.
    I was let play.
    I was allowed to play.
Rahul ko market me dekha gya hai.
    Rahul has been seen in the market.
Aek cheez uski achi thi ke woh bht mehanti tha.
    One thing he was good at that he was very hardworking.
    One thing I liked about him that he was very hardworking.
Kash woh mera saga bhai hota.
    I wish were my real brother.
Jiski bhi ungli me chot lgi hai, kripya agay ayen.
    Whoever's finger is injured, please come forward.
    Whosever finger is injured, please come forward.
Usne bhi meri baat nhi suni.
    He didn't listen to me either.
    Even he didn't listen to me.
Mai ne Vivek ko classrom me bhijwaya.
    I made Vivek go back to the classroom.
    I got Vivek to go back to the classroom.
Usne bhi meri baat nhi suni.
    He didn't listen to me either.
Uske pass laptop ho ga, jao or le aao.
    He would have a laptop, go and bring.
Woh subha se ghar par ho ga.
    He would be at home since morning.
Hum jab bhi usko call krte, woh gym me rehta hai.
    Whenver we call him, he is in the gym.
Uske pass aek achi job honi chahiye thi.
    He had to have a good job.
    He should have had a good job.
Pichly saal mai roz 5km dor pata tha.
    Last year, I could run 5 kms every day.
    Last year, I was able to run 5 kms every day.
Ravi ki madad kis kis ne?
    Who all helped Ravi?


1123432 Is number me kitne 1 hain?
    How many ... are there in 11*32?
        1. 1's 2. 1s
        // 1. 1's is correct

Tomorrow shabd me kitne M hain?
    How many ... are there in the word "Tomorrow"?
    1. m's 2. ms
    // 1. m's is correct

Is paragraph me kitni bar "the" ka paryog kiya gya hai?
    How many ... are used in this paragraph?
    1. the's
    2. thes
    // 1. the's is correct





