Conditional Sentences

There are 4 types of Conditional Sentences.

Type 0.
    Agar yeh ho/hota hai, to woh hota hai.
Type 1.
    Agar yeh ho/kare/karenge, to woh hoga/ho skta hai/hona chahiye.
Type 2.
    Agar yeh hota, to woh ho jata/pata.
    (possible)
Type 3.
    Agar yeh (hua) hota, to woh ho jata/pata/chuka hota/sakta tha.
    (impossible)



Type 0
    Agar yeh ho/hota hai, to woh hota hai.
    If/When + Present Simple, Present Simple.

    Practice
        Agar mai ziada khau to mera wazan barh jata hai.
            If I eat too much, I gain weight.
            When I eat too much, I gain weight.
        Agar woh ziada khata hai to uska wazan barh jata hai.
            If he eats too much, He gains weight.
            When he eats too much, He gains weight.
        Agar hmare pass samay hota hai to hum park me tehalne ke liye jate hain.
            If we have time, we go to the park for a walk.
            When we have time, we go to the park for a walk.
        Agar app sach bolte hain to har koi apki sarahna krta hai.
            If you speak the truth, everyone appreciates you.
            When you speak the truth, everyone appreciates you.
        Agr mujhe office phnchy me der ho jati hai to mere boss mujhe saza dete hain.
            If I get late to reach the office, my boss punishes me.
            If I am late to reach the office, my boss punishes me.
            When I am late to reach the office, my boss punishes me.
            When I am late to reach the office, my boss punishes me.

Type 1
    Agar yeh ho/kare/karenge, to woh hoga/ho skta hai/hona chahiye.
    If + Present Simple, Will/May/Might/Could/Should.

    Practice
        Agar app pani ko garam kren gyn to woh uble ga.
            If you heat the water, It will boil.
            If you heat the water, then It will boil.
        Agar app pani ko garam kren gyn to woh nhi uble ga.
            If you heat the water, It will not boil.
            If you heat the water, then It will not boil.
        Agar woh pani ko garam kre ga to woh uble ga.
            If he heats the water, it will boil.
            If he heats the water, then it will boil.
        Agar kal SJ 6 mar de to hum jeet jayn gyn.
            Tomorrow, If SJ hits the 6, we'll win the match.
            Tomorrow, If SJ hits the 6, then we'll win the match.
        Agar app ganda pani piyo gy to app beemar par jao gy.
            If you drink the dirty water, you'll fall sick.
            If you drink the dirty water, then you'll fall sick.
        Agar agle saal tk apke pas 10 lakh rupe ho jayen to apko car le leni chahiye.
            If you have 10 lakh rupees by the next year, you should buy a car.
            If you have 10 lakh rupees by the next year, then you should buy a car.

Type 2
    Agar yeh hota, to woh ho jata/pata.
    If + Past Simple, Would/Could.
    
    Rule:
        No matter what, we use "were" even with "I" in the subject.

    Practice
        Agar app English bolna seekh lete to apko yeh job mil jati.
            If you learned to speak English, you would get this job.
        Agar app English bolna seekh lete to apko yeh job mil pati.
            If you learned to speak English, you could get this job.
        Agar mere pas paise hote to mai apki madad kr deta.
            If I had money, I would help you.
        Agar mere pas paise hote to mai apki madad kr pata.
            If I had money, I could help you.
        Agar mere pas bhi ATM hota to mai bhi paise nikal pata.
            If I also had an ATM, I could also withdraw money.
        Agar mai manager hota, to mai is meeting me nhi ja pata.
            If I was a manager. -> Wrong.
            If I were the manager, I could not go to this meeting.
        Agar mujhe uska address pta hota to mai use invitation bhejta.
            If I knew his address, I would send him an invitation.
            If I had his address, I would send him an invitation.


Type 3
    Agar yeh (hua) hota, to woh ho jata/pata/chuka hota/sakta tha.
    If + Past Perfect, Would have/Could have.

    // not possible event. Past of past stuff.

    Practice
        Agar mujhe uska address pta hota, to mai use invitation bhej deta.
            If I had known his address, I would have sent him an invitation.
            Had I known his address, I would have sent him an invitation.
                // we can also use this syntax.
        Agar apne mehnat ki hoti, to app exam pass kr skty thy.
            If you had worked hard, you could have passed the exam.
            Had you worked hard, you could have passed the exam.
        Agar usne usdin mujhe call kra hota, to mai use sab kuch bta chuka hota.
            If he had called me that day, I would have told him about this matter.
            Had he called me that day, I would have told him about this matter.
        Agar mere pas samay hota to mai apse milne aa skta tha.
            If I had time, I could have come to meet you.
            Had I had time, I could have come to meet you.
                // when the contex is "pas hota" we remove "if" and add "had" but don't remove the main verb "had".


Type 3 Practice Bonus
    If I were the manager, I would not go to this meeting.
        -> Type 2
    If I had been the manager that day, I would not have gone to that meeting.
        -> Type 3
            // we use "had been" as past perfect BE verb.
    Agar mai 1999 me pardhan mantri hota to mai yeh faisla nhi leta.
        If I had been the Prime Minister in 1999, wouldn't have taken this decision.



